Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be play testing this multiplayer game with other people.
Now you can't tell at the moment because I don't have somebody else on the other side here but you are
going to be actually connecting to real other students on this course in this lecture over the internet
to play test your game features.
And we're going to be doing this with a piece of software called her marji which allows us to create
local networks over the Internet.
I'm going to be using that's great local networks with other students and playtest the game very exciting
stuff.
Let's dive in and see how that's done.
So let's take a little bit of a break.
Now for all that game play action to show off that game play action to other people over the Internet
on this course get some play testing of your game with other people simultaneously getting that feedback.
This is going to be really fun lecture.
So I'm really looking forward to seeing you guys working with each other to get this feedback on your
games.
That's one of the great things about multiplayer isn't it.
Being able to play with other people.
So the first thing we need to understand is why isn't it possible at the moment to connect to other
players outside of our local network and what is a local network anyway.
You keep talking about this local versus global.
What is it.
Let's go and have a look.
So we're going to be talking about the ugliness of a gnat.
Let's not worry about what that is just yet.
Let's just talk about how this whole thing works with local and global In fact how this whole internet
thing works.
There are two computers that want to talk to each other.
You and your mate who want to play this game together how are you two connected to one another.
Well first of all you probably connect to a router or a modem that you've got in your house and that
router or modem connect up to an ISP which among themselves all connect up and eventually get you guys
connected.
Will blob at the top.
That's what we like to call the Internet and the rest.
Here is your local network as it's known they may have many other devices on your local network.
And one of the problems with that is that in order to for you to talk with your mate Bob you need to
have an address to send your network traffic to now these addresses in Internet speak are called IP
addresses Internet protocol addresses.
Now IP addresses Unfortunately when they designed the Internet didn't account for how popular it was
going to be.
So they didn't create enough addresses.
They didn't make the addresses long enough basically.
And so there are so many issues with it.
And that's the IP V4 version for addresses are basically running out and they've invented a standard
called ipv 6 which is supposed to fix this but hasn't really been adopted everywhere because of backwards
compatibility issues and so on and so on.
But I won't bore you with all those details because what they've done to get around the issue of ipv
for addresses being scarce is that you will have your ISP generally only give your router a global IP
address and an IP address reachable from anywhere on the internet that's what it means by being global.
Now that's because they're scarce and people have many devices on their networks.
So what happens is all these devices on your network are given a local IP address which means that they
are reachable only within your local network.
So Bob for example can't reach your smartphone on this address 1 9 2 1 6 8 4.
He can only reach your router and he can reply to you because the router does some clever stuff like
saying oh if he's said something to Bob Then Bob can say something back to him and get it hooks up the
reply in the right direction.
There's some clever stuff going on there called Network Address Translation.
That's what this Nat means.
Now that is the term for Network Address Translation and translation from global to local addresses.
But the main thing to remember about Nat is that it's impossible to go from the global network in to
one specific device that without that device having first made a connection going outwards.
So that's the problem.
And obviously Bob has got a similar network going on on his end.
You can see that the IP addresses for local look a little bit different to those global ones.
They often start with 1 9 2 1 6 8 and then some stuff going afterwards.
Okay so we know that we can play LAN multi player over these two computers or now I've just told you
on real if you put in the IP address of a local LAN computer then you'll be able to connect to it.
And in fact you could even connect to a globally accessible address if you've got a server that has
such an address.
But the problem is most of us don't.
Most of us have computers on these gnats and would have to do clever things like port forwarding in
order to be able to use one of these computers as a server when it's hidden behind a local network like
this.
So if I'm telling you all this it sounds a bit like doom and gloom you're not going to be able to.
Play with other people on the course.
So that's where something like a simulated LAN comes in you can use clever software like amachi to create
a LAN that spans across the global network.
So it's actually really simple it creates a virtual local network.
And what we can do here is we can go over to the amati website which is WWE VPN dot net and download
their virtual private network client VPN client.
And I'd suggest you pause video go and get started while I explain the rest.
Okay.
And what we can do with that is we will connect up with other people who we want to play games with
for example and this will give us a local IP address but one that's actually kind of spans across the
global network.
It's very clever how it works but that's the main thing you need to understand is were creating a virtual
local network.
Okay.
So go ahead.
And while her marching may be downloading go and sign yourself up for an account get it all installed
get it all set up and running because what we want to do is fire up a marshy client like this one and
you will end up with it looking pretty much in this state here that you can see with some kind of IP
address numbers at the top here saying off line.
After you've logged in.
Now the way this works is the first you have to power it on.
Go online and it'll do all its probing and logging in et cetera et cetera et cetera.
And we end up here with two options to create a network or join an existing network.
Now I'm going to first show you how we create a network then I'm going to show you how we joined.
First let's go ahead create the network and do something like I'm going to call it out at sea which
is my surname password test and I'm going to go ahead and create that network.
Now you'll notice there's a nobody on my network as it currently stands because there is no one's joined
yet.
So I could go ahead and join from another computer so I'm going to go ahead and do that.
And it hit the join network on my other computer.
A.
And soon you will see it pop up.
They go MacBook Air saying that he has joined my network and you can see I've got two out of five.
Five is the limit on a free private network obviously marches free.
Telling has to do this all with free tools.
Two out of five possible connections me and that MacBook Air.
Great.
So let me just show you how it works the other way round for completeness sake if you are joining that
network.
Let me go ahead and delete this network here.
And I'm going to join a network that's already existing.
So go join there's another network on that map book AIRC called potosi too.
And the password's test again and they go it looks very very similar except this time it is a DC 2.
And I can right click and you see I don't have the option to delete the option to delete the network
because it's not my network.
I can only leave this network as opposed to delete it like I could when I had actually created it and
it was my network per say.
Okay.
So that's how we create undelete networks and join them on her marji and they actually give us IP addresses
on that local network.
Now how is this used with unreel Let's go ahead and create that network again.
In fact let's go ahead and join that the network so I don't have to connect on the other machine.
So it's easy to test and give it any name you like really how much he doesn't particularly mind.
Now what I've got is over on my other machine I had started an unreal server for the game.
Now we've seen how to do that already on our local machines.
It's exactly the same process.
You just start the unreel server and then we need to connect a client to that server.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to fire up a command prompt.
On Windows on a Mac.
It's obviously slightly different and I'm going to copy the path for my own real editor executable paste
that in.
Thanks.
I didn't copy the right thing.
Copy the paragraph.
Go over to command prompt and paste pasted event that got the right one this time.
Now I'm going to copy my project file path go over to the command prompt again and paste that in and
then finally we want to paste in the address of the computer we are trying to connect to.
So that is quite easy to find from her muchy.
You just go and find the computer in your local network so the server.
In my case is the MacBook Air.
I right click on it and I click copy ipv for address so I have copied my ipv for address and I go over
to my command prompt and I paste it in there and then finally I end off with a dash game to make a client
and maybe dash log just in case anything goes wrong so we can see what the error messages are.
I do recommend you use that.
Now if you're having trouble connecting then you may need to find the port of the server you're connecting
to have a amachi and include that after the address to find out how to do this.
Then go and have a look at the lecture that we've already done called meet the client server model if
you don't remember there at the end of that lecture there is an explanation of how you can find the
port as well as how you can enter it along with the IP address.
Go ahead and fire up the game and see whether it connects over amachi to the server running on my other
machine that MacBook Air.
K. here it comes.
It's loading up.
See if it does the right thing hasar.
I am the second player in this world with the server as you can tell.
I'm definitely the client because the platforms are moving a little bit jerkily and I was the second
and spawned And there's another dude over here who I can't control at the moment has I got a server
only instance on my MacBook Air.
Fantastic So that is how it connects in with unreal that's alter 4 out of here.
And the app so you can very easily use her muchI to connect to games over the network and that is going
to be the challenge for the lecturer to connect with another student.
Now this is very very important because we're here for multiplayer games.
I want you to actually get playing multiple your multiplayer games with other students.
Let's take a look at the challenge.
So the challenge is to find someone to play with it's now.
This is going to be a little bit tricky but bear with me.
Okay.
So we are going to go ahead and create a post in the forum asking for someone to help play test our
game.
Now you are going to put the available times the times at which you are available to play test the game
with someone because it's quite important that you both there at the same time for a multi player game.
Now let me just say that the way I want you to do this is not to say I'm going to be there between nine
and six because there are so many times those are that students are in that's going to be completely
ambiguous.
What we're going to do is we're all going to convert our local time zone into utc.
So for example if I am available from 5:00 p.m. in my local time zone I can use this every time zone
dot com website to convert 5 p.m. over to a utc which you can see is just down here on my screen.
Round about the middle and it is 4:00 p.m. utc Okay.
So that's what I would use as my start time so I'm available till 9 p.m. then that would be 8:00 p.m.
utc So I'm available from 4 to 8 p.m. utc and that's what you need to put in your title for till 8 p.m.
utc then what everyone can do is find out where who's available and overlaps in their availabilities.
Because again we have loads at times out.
Use this lecture as a particular link because that's going to take you to the right place in the forum
where all the other posts asking for play testing partner are going to be.
Then I'd like you to include in your post a screenshot of your level as it stands that you want play
testing just to entice people in to want to play test with you and while you wait.
Why not go through and reply to some other people who have requested play testing so that you can help
them out.
Play test your game and then finally when you've coordinated decided on a time you can go ahead and
hop into discord and chat over discord to the person in question.
And in fact you can even use voice chat is an option in Discordia to use voice chat and then you can
play your game over her maachis so that you both get to test out the process of connecting to someone
over amachi as well as getting someone else to play with you in your game and give you some feedback
on your level design.
Now clearly you're going to have to get your project files to the other person who's going to playtest
with you there are a couple of ways you can do this.
One way is get hard if you know how to use get hub.
But if you or your partner don't know how to use get hub then you can use this which is share drop dot
I know the cool thing about shared drop I O is when you land on it and then there's just a U.
But what you can do is you can go ahead and click Plus which creates a room and gives you a unique link
which you can give to the other person and then you can drop files to the other person like zip of your
project by just clicking and dragging on to that other person.
So go ahead and try that.
If you aren't familiar with using get hub Okay.
Pause video and go ahead and do that.
Okay welcome back.
So you probably haven't got to the stage of having got through all that reply and response.
Don't worry do go ahead and do some of the next videos because they aren't going to rely on you having
playtest.
I'm just going to be adding some more gameplay features at the moment.
But do go ahead and make sure that you have got a post waiting for someone.
And also go in there and be generous and be generous with your time and help other people playtest their
game.
So at least you can get her hang of connecting over her to other people's service.
Okay so that's it from me.
I'm not going to be showing you how to do this one obviously because you have to go ahead and do it
yourself so I will see in the next lectures where we will be creating some more gameplay features for
our game.